README.md, before:

# Wales-ish OTP Graph Generator

This is a bunch to scripts to help assemble OpenTripPlanner graphs that are useable for planning trips, by car or public transport, between places in Wales.

The map below shows the train and bus stops included (as of June 2021), giving an idea of the region included:

![Map of train and bus stops covered by Wales-ish region](map.png)


## Features and Anti-Features

- Downloads bus etc. open data from DfT GOV.UK
- Downloads OpenStreetMap data from geofabrik.de
- Relies on you to download heavy rail CIF from data.atoc.org
- Creates extracts of street and public transport data covering Wales and strip of the borders
- Covers Chester, Liverpool, Shrewsbury, Hereford, Bristol, Gloucester
- Doesn't cover Wolverhampton, Birmingham or most of Manchester

## Requirements
- R
- UK2GTFS R package
- osmium

## How-to

```R
devtools::load_all()
# You have to download the latest ATOC timetable data from data.atoc.org 
# and move it to data-raw/atoc.zip
prepare_atoc_gtfs()
download_and_prepare_bus_gtfs()
download_and_prepare_osm()
prepare_street_graph()
prepare_transport_graph()
# output/ should now contain streetGraph.obj and graph.obj
```

Commit message:

Add a bit more detail on the strip of England.

README.md, after:

# Wales-ish OTP Graph Generator

This is a bunch to scripts to help assemble OpenTripPlanner graphs that are useable for planning trips, by car or public transport, between places in Wales - including where these trips involve a short journey entirely within England. (It likely also works well enough for planning trips between places in Wales and a small number of English towns just the other side of the border.)

The map below shows the train and bus stops included (as of June 2021), giving an idea of the region included:

![Map of train and bus stops covered by Wales-ish region](map.png)


## Features and Anti-Features

- Downloads bus etc. open data from DfT GOV.UK
- Downloads OpenStreetMap data from geofabrik.de
- Relies on you to download heavy rail CIF from data.atoc.org
- Creates extracts of street and public transport data covering Wales and strip of the borders
- Covers Chester, Liverpool, Shrewsbury, Hereford, Bristol, Gloucester
- Doesn't cover Wolverhampton, Birmingham or most of Manchester

## Requirements
- R
- UK2GTFS R package
- osmium

## How-to

```R
devtools::load_all()
# You have to download the latest ATOC timetable data from data.atoc.org 
# and move it to data-raw/atoc.zip
prepare_atoc_gtfs()
download_and_prepare_bus_gtfs()
download_and_prepare_osm()
prepare_street_graph()
prepare_transport_graph()
# output/ should now contain streetGraph.obj and graph.obj
```
